---
layout: post
title: Bitcoin Mining Software and Hardware Tools
date: '2015-11-10T00:00:00+08:00'
tags:
- bitcoin
- bitcoin mining
tumblr_url: http://bitcoinminer.com/post/147353710359/bitcoin-mining-software-and-hardware-tools
---
There aren’t many individuals who are familiar with the term Bitcoin mining tools. The definition of bitcoin mining tools is that it is a way for Bitcoin miners to pool all of their resources together and to share their hashing power and then they split their rewards equally. This is according to a number of shares that they have contributed by sharing a block.Members of the Bitcoin mining pool are awarded a “share” when they present a valid proof of work that these Bitcoin miners have solved. When the difficulty in the mining field increased to the point where it could take many years for those miners, which are slower at generating a block, Bitcoin mining pools were created to make it quicker and easier.Therefore, for miners, the only solution to this problem that they could think of was for them to pool all of their resources so that they would have the ability to generate the blocks quicker, so that they could receive a portion of the Bitcoin block reward and on a daily and consistent basis. They wanted to accomplish this otherwise, they would only randomly receive it maybe once every few years.If you are one of those individuals who do not mine with a Bitcoin mining pool then you are what is called a solo-mine. If this is the direction that you want to take then you will need to ensure that you remain in compliance to the Bitcoin network. If you decide that participating in the Bitcoin mine pool is something that you want to do then you will need to make sure that they are engaging in the proper behavior that is in agreement that you are about Bitcoin.There have been many cases in which rogue developers have even threatened to release software that would end up hard-forking the network. This would result in tremendous financial damage. Make sure that the Bitcoin mining power, which you direct to a mining pool, does not try or enforce network consensus rules you are not in agreement with.There are several Bitcoin mining pools that are out there that you have the ability to choose from. It always seems very tempting to pick the most popular pools, smaller pools are better for the health of the network to be able to mine. Several different Bitcoin mining pools that you have to choose from are:- Slush Pool- BTCC- BitMinter- Kano CKPool- Antpool- Eligius- Bitfury- F2Pool- BW PoolAll of these Bitcoin pools are highly recommended and have created a very good name for themselves in the world of Bitcoin. There are also several payment methods for a Bitcoin mining pool. It can be incredibly complex when you are calculating the Bitcoins that are mined.There have been many calculation schemes that have been invented in an ongoing effort to come up with the fairest method. The top 2 most important types are DGM and PPS and they add risk to the mining pool while their payment is guaranteed for every single share that you contribute. There are several other forms of payment and they include:- PPLNS- PROP- SMPPS- RSMPPS- BPM- CPPSRB- ELIGIUS- SCORE- POT- TripleminingIf you are one of those individuals who is looking to join a Bitcoin mining pool, looking and thinking of it as a lottery syndicate can be an incredibly helpful thing to do. There are several pros and cons that you should consider before making your decision. Here are the pros and cons of going solo:Pros  - You don’t have to share the reward- A pool has a much larger chance of solving a block and winning an awarded- Joining a pool means that you will have a steady stream of incomeCons  - The odds of you receiving an award is significantly decreased- The reward will be split between all of the pool membersOnce you have decided what currency it is that you decide on to mine and the pool that you will be working with then there is no time to waste and you can get started. Once you go on the pool’s website you will begin by creating an account and it is just like signing up for any other service on the web. After you have created your account it is important to begin by creating a “worker”. For each individual piece of mining hardware that you will be using, you can create multiple workers to handle each piece.Miners are not allowed to meddle with any of the transaction data that is inside the block. However, if they want to create a different hash they must change the data that they are using. They can do this by using another random piece of data and this is called a ‘nonce’, and to create a hash, a nonce is used with the transaction data.The hash must fit the required format, however, if it does not fit, then the nonce must be changed and then the whole thing is hashed again. Patience is key because it can take many attempts to be able to find a nonce that will work and all of the miners that are on the network are trying to do it at the same exact time. This process is how miners are able to earn Bitcoins.In conclusion, when it comes to Bitcoin mining tools the whole process can be long and sometimes very difficult. The best thing to do to progress is to take it slowly, make the best and wisest decisions that you can because you do not want to lose anything during this process.Your aim is to gain as much as you can and working through all of this properly and efficiently is the only way to be able to succeed. In this type of activity, you are definitely going to want to succeed rather than fail.
