---
layout: post
seotitle: How To Get Started Mining Bitcoins
title: Getting Started Mining Bitcoins
description: How to get started mining Bitcoins today.
excerpt: How to get started mining Bitcoins today to make money.
keywords: start mining bitcoin, start bitcoin mining
featured: /images/start.jpg
alt: start mining bitcoins
---

<h2>Steps On Using Bitcoin</h2>
<ul>
<p>1.Learn About Bitcoin</p>

<li><p>Bitcoin is not the same on what you are <a href="/what-is-bitcoin/">using on a daily basis</a> or the things that you might know. In order for you to be able to start using Bitcoins without any pitfalls or unsecured transaction, you should refer some guides on how to start with. </p></li>

<li><p>2.Decide Your Desired Wallet</p>

<p>On you daily life transactions, wallet plays important role that it can be just put on your mobile or computer and bring it anywhere you go. Though it is important to choose what satisfies your requirements, you can choose or change anytime you want.</p></li>

<li><p>3.Accept Bitcoins</p>

<p>You can get Bitcoins by any payment you receive from <a href="/bitcoin-miner-SP20-jackson/">selling or buying transactions</a> whether from a friend, a client or somebody near you. Using your bank account, you can also get BTC from exchange industries.</p></li>

<li><p>4.Use Bitcoins For Purchasing</p>

<p>There are huge amount of merchant, sellers and buyers that uses Bitcoins all over the world. You can start doing transactions to them and abide honest ratings for visibility purposes.</p></li>
</ul>
<h2>Steps On Accepting Bitcoins</h2>
<ul>
<li><p>1.Learn About Bitcoin</p>

<p>Bitcoin doen’st need merchants to <a href="/bitcoin-miner-antminer-s9/">process any transactions</a>. Bitcoin is a bit different when you compare it on what you have been using everyday. Hence, using Bitcoin is very cool but you have also to understand the concept and even the worst thing to happen when you failed using it carefully.</p></li>

<li><p>2.Process Payment Transaction</p>

<p>Processing invoices or payments with Bitcoin is so easy where you can use merchant services or even process it by your own to deposit money on your currency or Bitcoin. Commonly used on POS are phones or tablets for clients and customers convenience where they can just use phones and mobiles.</p></li>

<li><p>3.Taxes and Accounting</p>

<p>Contacting a qualified accountant is way more safer in terms of buying <a href="/how-to-mine-bitcoins/">items from merchants</a> and compute the appropriate tax where merchants happen to display their product information on local currency. Tax compliance is a must and you can have a lot of ways to comply easily.</p></li>

<li><p>4.Becoming More Visible</p>

<p>A lot of BTC users have been searching for ways and steps on how to use their cryptocurrency in purchasing items anywhere. You can put your <a href="/irb-warns-against-bitcoin-breaks-usd-1000/">business to online business pages</a> in order for you to be visible to anyone.</p></li>
</ul>
