---
layout: post
title: Software
description: Software Page
---

<h2>The Meaning of Bitcoin Mining Software</h2>

<p>Assuming that you already have at least minor knowledge in <a href="/hardware/">Bitcoin Mining Hardware</a>, we will now be tackling the best Bitcoin Mining Software. While they differ on process handling, both of them have the same importance in terms of Bitcoin mining. </p>

<p>If you are doing it by your own, the BTC mining software will then <a href="/pools/">connect to your blockchain</a>. Whereas, if you are mining with your buddies and using the pool, then your software will be connecting to a Bitcoin mining portal.</p>

<p>On the other hand, Bitcoin cloud mining doesn't need any mining software to use with.</p>

<h2>Bitcoin Mining Software Importance</h2>

<p>The actual process of Bitcoin mining is to connect both mining hardware and mining software. Hence, the Bitcoin mining software will take care of the distribution of digital data into the network and process them into a complete information for you to be able to understand the statistics.</p>

<p>You can then monitor the in and out of your miner device by displaying the information you want to show on screen. That includes hashrate, speed of the Bitcoin miner, fan speed and the temperature of the hardware.</p>

<h2>BTC Wallets</h2>

<p>Wallet is a MUST before using or doing any mining stuffs. <a href="/cloud/">Bitcoin address</a> will be on the wallet that you can use when setting up the Bitcoin mining software. The purpose is to send the payouts and rewards in the future. </p>

<p>After you make and <a href="/blog/">downloaded a wallet</a>, that's the time you can have the address to supply on the Bitcoin mining software setup.</p>

<p>We can recommend you the following wallets :</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Electrum</strong> - This wallet can work on multiple platforms like Windows, Linux and Mac.</p></li>

<li><p><strong>Mycelium</strong> - This wallet is the most common wallet in Android.</p></li>

<li><p><strong>Breadwallet</strong> - This wallet is the most common wallet for IOS.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>If you have this high hope to profit more money in Bitcoin mining then purchasing a hardware wallet would be a good idea, which is more secure than the above wallets. You can also go to Ledger Nano S which priced in the market for $60 - $65 which will keep your coins more and more secure.</p>

<p>Since you already have the idea on what is a Bitcoin mining software is including the idea of a wallet, it's time to learn on different BTC software that runs on different platforms.</p>

<h2>Windows Operating System : Bitcoin Mining Software</h2>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Bitcoin Miner</strong></p>

<p>This miner is available on both Windows 8.1 and Windows 10. The software interface is user-friendly, it supports pool mining, there's a mode for power saving and very fast in share submission. </p>

<p>The most powerful feature on this Bitcoin mining software is the profit reports. Hence, on this feature you can easily monitor your profit over a period of time. The newest version upon writing this article is Bitcoin Miner 1.27.0.</p></li>

<li><p><strong>BTCMiner</strong></p>

<p>This <a href="/bitcoin-miner-antminer-s9/">Bitcoin miner</a> is an Open Source for ZTEX USB-FGPA modules 1.5. The following features are : there's a flexibility on chosing the highest rate of frequency in valid hashes, integrated with Bitstream example - Xilinx software or required with license. </p>

<p>The miner also has FPGA board supports that has USB interface in it for programming and communication usage.</p></li>

<li><p><strong>CGMiner</strong></p>

<p>Upon writing this page, it is aguably the most common and the most popular Bitcoin mining software used by miners. CPU Miner is the original code for this miner. </p>

<p>It has a lot of features which specifically : control on fan speed, capabilities for remote interface, using mini database - it can detect new blocks easily, supports with multi GPU, and supports CPU Mining.</p></li>

<li><p><strong>BFGMiner</strong></p>

<p>It is almost the same features with CGMiner. Unlike CGMiner, BGFMiner doesn't focused on GPUs which turns out to be their big difference on features.</p> 

<p>It has unique capabilities also like : LLVM OpenCL/mesa mining, PCI bus ID reorderring ADL device, can be integrated for overclocking and fan control.</p></li>

<li><p><strong>EasyMiner</strong></p>

<p>Acting as a wrapper for BFGMiner and CGMiner software, the GUI-based Bitcoin mining software is very convenient. The are 2 protocols this software supported with : stratum mining and getwork mining. </p>

<p>Both pool and solo mining can be executed on the software. Graphical illustration and can be set up easily with your miner are the features that is very important on this software.</p></li>
</ul>
<h2>Linux Operating System : Bitcoin Mining Software</h2>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>CGMiner</strong></p>

<p>Upon writing this page, it is aguably the most common and the most popular Bitcoin mining software used by miners. CPU Miner is the original code for this miner. </p>

<p>It has a lot of features which specifically : control on fan speed, capabilities for remote interface, using mini database - it can detect new blocks easily, supports with multi GPU, and supports CPU Mining.</p></li>

<li><p><strong>BFGMiner</strong></p>

<p>It is almost the same features with CGMiner. Unlike CGMiner, BGFMiner doesn't focused on GPUs which turns out to be their big difference on features. </p>

<p>It has unique capabilities also like : LLVM OpenCL/mesa mining, PCI bus ID reorderring ADL device, can be integrated for overclocking and fan control.</p></li>

<li><p><strong>EasyMiner</strong></p>

<p>Acting as a wrapper for BFGMiner and CGMiner software, the <a href="/usb-bitcoin-miner/">GUI-based Bitcoin mining software</a> is very convenient. The are 2 protocols this software supported with : stratum mining and getwork mining. </p>

<p>Both pool and solo mining can be executed on the software. Graphical illustration and can be set up easily with your miner are the features that is very important on this software.</p></li>
</ul>
<h2>Mac Operating System : Bitcoin Mining Software</h2>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>RPC Miner</strong></p>

<p>This miner can be supportive on Mac OS 10.6 or up and have features like  <a href="/bitcoin-miner-SP20-jackson/"> integrating with Mac OS systems and APIs</a>.</p></li>
</ul>
